---
title: A Year In
author: cgorshing
layout: post
permalink: /index.php/2008/08/16/a-year-in/
categories:
  - General
---
Well we have hit a milestone just recently. Last week we had a year review and had a sit down meeting with the doctor. He had some good news to tell us, and then some more. I am actually more excited and relieved than I have been.  
<!--more-->

  
Christian and I had some questions already lined out for the doctor so we have all our questions answered. One of the most important items, I felt, was are we running out of time. I am scared to death we will not get this corrected in time and she will be stuck with what she has. I have been wrong all along in thinking after or near her eighth birthday would basically be the end, whether it was fixed or not. The doctor informed us it will be more difficult to get progress out of her as she gets older, but we still have a big window of opportunity to get this 100% corrected. This was something I wasn&#8217;t expecting and now hearing that I am tremendously excited.

Initially going into this she was diagnosed with six things wrong with her left eye. One of the items has been totally cured and that is being able to use the [macula][1]. This has been fixed [some time back][2], but I wasn&#8217;t for sure this would completely fix one of the issues she has. The other problem which is extremely close to being fixed is [amblyopia][3]. We were given some more good news relating to this yesterday. They tested her VA again and she is down to 20/40.

So now to scare you a little bit &#8230; Alyssa&#8217;s right eye is beginning to shut off now. Christian and I asked the doctor about this and to our disbelief he said this was actually a good thing. What is happening is the brain is so used to shutting off an eye (her left one) out of habit that it is now getting confused which eye to shut off. This is because her VA in her left eye is getting so much better and the brain is having a hard time decided between the left eye or the right eye. So as weird as it sounds it is actually a really good thing. Needless to say we don&#8217;t want this to happen all the time, but for the time being it is awesome!

The last **huge** news we received is she is starting to have depth perception. Until recently she has never had this happening. They have have test to judge your depth perception where you put on glasses and are able to see certain objects &#8216;floating&#8217; in air. She is able to spot two out of the three correctly. This is a **massive** accomplishment as the brain will start to figure out what all it can do and see with both eyes working together. Another little side note: When Alyssa was little I tried to get her to ride a bike without training wheels. She never was able to do this at all and I never was able to figure it out until we realized what was happening with her eyes. I feel little wobbly when I walk with one eye closed. I can only imagine how hard it would be to ride a bike with one eye closed. So with this progress I am going to go buy her a new bike next month (she is too big for the old one) and see if she can do any better.

One last thing is her exercises are beginning to work with both eyes together instead of just her left. So far we are doing one hour of working with both eyes together and 10 minutes working only with her left.

She doesn&#8217;t seem to like her latch hook kit we bought her, but she seems to be really liking the cross stitch starter kit. Which is actually better as the cross stitch is much smaller to work with.

 [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Macula
 [2]: http://alyssa.gorshing.net/blog/?p=25
 [3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amblyopia